WELCOME

IMPORTANT INFORMATION
Refrain from sending any Admin or Owner a Direct Message on Discord unless asked to. They will not respond. If you need to get into contact with one of them, create a support ticket. You are NOT allowed to approach/call any Owner, Admin, or Dev in the city to ask about any ticket progress, dev queries, or any general out-of-city information. When any Owner, Admin, or Dev is in the city, they are there to RP and should not be treated differently. Failure to comply will result in a Tier Warning.

YOUR ACCOUNT

IRL PLAYER AGE
Our Roleplay community is intended for players aged 18 and above to ensure a mature and responsible environment for storytelling and character interactions.

MICROPHONE/AUDIO
Microphone and Audio functionality must always be operational for seamless communication with other citizens. To maintain a respectful atmosphere, please ensure to use the “Push-To-Talk” feature as the default setting. It is your sole responsibility to keep your account details secure and confidential; Koalaty will not take any responsibility for hacked accounts.

POACHING
In our city’s roleplay community, poaching is strictly prohibited. If you are not actively participating in our city’s RP and are solely here to recruit players for another server, you will face a ban.

BEHAVIOUR
Any form of harassment or attack towards another Roleplay player will result in a ban from the server. We do NOT condone any form of Toxicity towards any player. This includes excessive use of foul language, racist remarks, sexism, and roleplay using bodily fluids inappropriately (e.g., pee, spitting, and pooping on someone). This includes the use of emotes and /me in scenes.

PROHIBITED ROLEPLAY
We do not condone any of the following roleplay scenes:

Suicidal Roleplay
Sexual Assault
Corrupt Law Enforcement Officials
Erotic Roleplay (Sexual RP)
IN CITY WORDS
The following words are used in the city for out-of-city reference:

In head - Not by PC
Brain - Your PC
Eyes - Your Screen
Voicebox - Your Microphone
Ears - Your Headset
Alien - Real Life
Person In Alien - In Real Life
Government - Admin Team
President - An Owner
Construction Workers - Development Team
Email - Discord
Brainshedding - Loadshedding
REALISTIC DRIVING
Avoid using your vehicle in unrealistic ways. Taking a supercar off-road would be considered Fail RP since it deviates from realistic driving. While ramming by PD is prohibited, if you engage in break checking and they subsequently ram you, the responsibility falls on you.

YOUR CHARACTER
It is of great importance to NEVER BREAK CHARACTER and always remain consistent with your character’s persona, including accents, behavior, and overall personality. Your character defines you as a role-player. Never ignore or intentionally avoid roleplay.

RDM AND VDM

Random Death Match (RDM): Refers to a situation where a player intentionally kills or attacks another player’s character without any valid in-character reason or roleplay interaction.
Vehicle Death Match (VDM): Occurs when a player uses a vehicle to intentionally harm or kill other players’ characters without a valid in-character reason or proper roleplay context.
RULESPLAINING
Refrain from incorporating city rules into your roleplay and/or explaining rule-breaking during roleplay interactions.

BODY CAM/FOOTAGE
It is recommended that players should always have their body cam running. Body Cam refers to having either Medal or Overwolf running to record your gameplay session. This is essential for when there are player reports, proving innocence or guilt.

HACKING, BUGS, AND GLITCHES
Using hacks, bugs, and glitches to gain an unfair advantage or disrupt the roleplay experience is strictly prohibited. Any player found exploiting such methods will be subjected to disciplinary action, including possible banning from the server. If a player experiences a glitch or bug, it needs to be reported immediately.

METAGAMING
The act of using out-of-character (OOC) knowledge to influence in-character (IC) actions and decisions. Stream Sniping and Discord Voice Chats are good examples.

POWERGAMING
A style of roleplay where a player forces their character’s actions upon others without allowing any room for fair and realistic responses. As well as the act of using third-party mechanics such as hacks and cheats to benefit your character in the city.

POCKET WIPING
Items taken during robberies should make sense for the character taking the items. You cannot remove all items from a player. For example, you must leave items such as consumables (food and water). Only illegal items are allowed to be taken.

COMBAT LOGGING
The act of abruptly disconnecting or exiting during a roleplay scene just to not face the consequences of your actions. This action is considered a violation of RP rules.

NEW LIFE RULE
The New Life Rule dictates that when a character dies in a specific RP situation, the player must forget all information and experiences 30 minutes prior to death.

FAIL ROLEPLAY
Fail RP refers to instances in a roleplay setting where a player behaves in a manner that breaks the immersion of the scene or violates the established rules of the RP world. No SAPS/EMS baiting will be allowed, which will result in a Tier warning. You are not allowed to /me when you are dead to communicate with someone else. When a citizen wears a mask, you cannot identify them based on physical appearance and their voice.

VALUE YOUR LIFE/VALUING OTHERS' LIVES
“Value Your Life” means that players should realistically consider their character’s life and the lives of others during roleplay. If your character is faced with a dangerous situation, such as being held at gunpoint, it is crucial to fear for your life and comply with the situation accordingly. Gangs are to be feared as they are feared IRL; you cannot take on a whole gang by yourself. “Valuing Others' Lives” means that if a member/partner is being held at gunpoint, you should fear their lives as you would your own. SAPS included. This is done to promote and further the roleplay scene.

BUSINESSES

Business owners are not allowed to own more than one business at a time. Businesses are bought from the government at a set price and must be sold back to the government by the original purchaser of the business.
A business owner is allowed to have a business partner (co-owner). If it comes to a point where the original purchaser wants to sell the business, all rights of the co-owners get relinquished. The business is then sold back to the government at 50% of the purchase price paid for by the original purchaser.
Citizens are required to remove their masks when entering a business. Business Owners are responsible for Role Request and Removals of their employees. If a business is not active enough, they will receive a strike. Three strikes and the business will be repossessed by the government with no refund to the owner.
Each business is only allowed ten employees, including the Owner.
WHITELISTED JOBS
Citizens may have a maximum of two whitelisted jobs. Business owners, SAPS, and EMS may not have any other whitelisted job.

CRIMINAL ACTIVITY

Thirty minutes before and 15 minutes after the scheduled server restart, a crime-free period is enforced; failure to comply will result in a Tier warning. No chain robberies are allowed (see SAPS Illegal Activity section).
After a shootout between two gangs, there will be a 60-minute cooldown period before another shootout may begin (gang wars).
A maximum of 15 gang members, including the Gang Boss, are allowed per gang.
Members of the gang need to be wearing their respective gang clothing when participating in gang activity.
Gang vehicles must be sprayed in their respective gang colors.
Gangs will be limited to a maximum of five gang vehicles.
While friendly interactions and/or business arrangements are permitted, alliances between gangs are strictly prohibited.
Territory taking is only available when there is sufficient SAPS on duty.
Gangs that break gang rules will receive a Strike; three strikes and the gang will be disbanded.
SAPS are allowed to intervene at any point in time during an active gang war.
GANG RULES
With regards to gang wars, these scenes need to be played out in Sandy Shores/Paleto Bay or The Favelas (away from the city). This includes territory wars. Communication between both Gang Bosses is essential prior to the gang war. The conditions of the war need to be clearly stipulated and agreed upon by both gang bosses before the war commences. Gang wars may take place at the respective gang houses/compounds.

SOUTH AFRICAN POLICE SERVICE

Any SAPS Officer has the authority to question and search any citizen within a 50m radius of a crime notification. Legal weapons may be taken if it was used in any criminal activity. You may under no circumstances rob a SAPS Officer.
SAPS are allowed to do a pit maneuver as stated in their SOP under the speed of 120 km/h.
Clean chases are to be realistic; supercars are to be used on tar roads, off-road vehicles are to be used realistically when going off-road.
Clean chase will fall away after 5 minutes, after which SAPS may then start attempting to take a back tire.
When a citizen/gang member falls out of their vehicle during a chase, they are not allowed to get back in the vehicle and must continue on foot.
If there is a firearm in the suspect’s hand, SAPS is authorized to open fire; however, if there is no firearm, an immediate 2-minute clean foot chase will begin. During this time, the suspects and SAPS are not allowed to shoot.
When the 2 minutes end, SAPS are allowed to start tackling/tazing, and the suspects are allowed to open fire as a last resort. Four total tackles are allowed (no instant tackling will be allowed; SAPS should give a 10-second break between tackles). SAPS are allowed to start tazing after failing to subdue the suspect after four tackles provided the suspect doesn’t have a firearm in their hand.
The above applies to the following scenarios as well:

Vehicle out of fuel, flipped vehicle, broken engine.
SAPS are not allowed to “run plates” on a vehicle with no number plate visible.
SAPS Officers are not allowed to partake in any criminal activities when off duty.
SOUTH AFRICAN POLICE SERVICES

Maximum criminals will be relooked at when PD numbers are up.
PD is allowed to be plus two in all heists.
Chases: 1 crim vehicle = 3 PD vehicles.
Tier 1 (30 min cooldown between scenes)

House robbery (2 max crims)
Store robbery (3 max crims)
Warehouse Robbery (2 max crims)
Tier 2 (45 min cooldown between scenes)

Bobcat Heist (4 max crims)
Jewellery Store (4 max crims)
Fleeca Bank (4 max crims)
Paleto Bank (4 max crims)
Tier 3 (60 min cooldown between scenes)

Union Heist (6 max crims)
Main Bank (6 max crims)
CIT Heist (4 max crims) (instant shoot on site, no hostage allowed)
ILLEGAL ACTIVITY

Criminals need to wait a total of 25 minutes AFTER the robbery has started for SAPS to respond.
Locals are not allowed to be used as a hostage.
NETCARE 911 EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES

You may not steal any EMS vehicle.
You are not allowed to take any EMS official hostage while on duty or in EMS clothing.
When someone is downed, EMS gets notified automatically of their location.
If EMS is on duty and you fail to use the service by taking your friend to the hospital, you will receive a fine and a warning for body moving.
Do not spam call EMS.
When you get revived and treated by EMS, you are required to give your state ID number to the Doctor/Paramedic who assisted you.
Your local doctor (AI Medic) is not allowed to be used during active scenes.
EMS are allowed to double the medical bill if any citizen is rude, disrespectful, or toxic towards a Medical Official.
EMS shall consult the nearest officer when attending to a crime scene.
If EMS feels that you need to be transported to the hospital for further medical attention, you are NOT allowed to refuse this as it takes away from their RP.
EMS officials are allowed to participate in illegal activities when they are off duty and not in EMS clothing (this may not be done with a gang).
EMS may not be part of any gang.
EMS vehicles are not allowed to be used for any purpose other than medical emergencies.
Citizens and gang members are not allowed to tell EMS how to do their jobs.
HEISTS RULES

You may not participate in any PD/Gang scenes 30 minutes before your scheduled loadshedding as this may lead to a rushed scene which may take away the RP from other players.
No robbing is allowed 30 minutes prior and 15 minutes after server restart.
No 3rd party involvement is allowed in scenes (you are not allowed to ask for help from other people when in an active scene unless it was already planned into the scene. This should be communicated to PD by saying you will have outside help).
Vehicles used in any robbery should be clearly visible to the responding SAPS Officers.
Cooldown periods (as mentioned on pg 11) must be followed accordingly.
KOALATY ROLEPLAY SAFE ZONES
Safe Zones are designated areas where all forms of criminal activity, including (but not limited to) hostage-taking, shooting, drug deals, stealing vehicles, and robbing, are strictly prohibited. Initiating any illegal activities within these areas will be seen as a breach of server rules and will result in a Tier Warning or Ban. Safe Zones are not allowed to be used to go hide or get out of an RP scene.

Koalaty Roleplay Safe Zones:

Police Department
Pillbox Hospital
City Hall
Mining Foundry
Recycling (Both in city and Paleto)
All Dealerships
Both Mechshops
Red Raven Ammunation
Koalaty Pawn Shop
BANS
When you are on a Final Warning and you offend again, you will be banned immediately. Cheating/Hacking will result in an immediate ban. Poaching will result in an immediate ban. Koalaty Roleplay has a NO Ban Appeal Policy. If you get banned, it means that we have given you enough chances to rectify your roleplay.

WARNINGS AND BANS
Seeing as Koalaty Roleplay is a strict Roleplay server, we have a warning system in place. Our Tier Warning system works as follows:

Verbal Warning - This is given for less minor offenses/rule-breaking.
Tier 1 Warning - This is given for minor offenses/rule-breaking.
Tier 2 Warning - This is given for intermediate offenses/rule-breaking.
Tier 3 Warning - This is given for more serious offenses/rule-breaking.
Final Warning - This is given for serious offenses/rule-breaking.
If you receive a Tier Warning, and you offend again after, you will move up a Tier. If you prove that you can follow the rules and give proper roleplay, you will move down a Tier.

The Tier Warnings have a specified time in Timeout Penalty where you won’t be able to “fly” into the city:

Tier 1 Warning - 2 days in Timeout Penalty 5 days 150 commserve
Tier 2 Warning - 3 days in Timeout Penalty 11 days 150 commserve
Tier 3 Warning - 4 days in Timeout Penalty 17 days 200 commserve
Final Warning - 5 days in Timeout Penalty 23 days 200 commserve
